Market trend analytics is all about figuring out if a market is growing,
stagnant, or in decline.
It's also used to help us understand how fast that change is occurring.
Now understanding market size is important,
but knowing whether that market is in
a positive trend or a negative trend is just as important.
If you know for example,
that your market is in decline,
then you might need to take action.
You can choose to pivot your business into a new market,
or you can try and reinvigorate that market.
You may also decide to launch a new product or new initiatives into entirely new markets.
Now, if you know that your market is growing,
then you can move resources into this market or invest in
campaigns that capitalize on that positive change.
You should be looking at your market trend every six months,
just to get a good sense of how things are shifting and how your business fits in.
With that, you'll be able to answer questions.
Such as is this market growing, or is it declining?
Are there new markets we should be focusing on?
Are there markets we should abandon?
Now, change in any market is inevitable.
The trick is knowing what those changes might be before they
arrive so you can stay ahead of them or adapt to meet them,
so you're staying competitive.
Let's look at how we can measure and monitor market trends together.